[ Music ]
Henry, Henry Oldridge, coming mother.
[ Applause ]
The Aldrich family written by Clifford Goldsmith and starring Ezra Stone.
Entertainment for All the Family brought to you by Postam,
attempting wholesome drink for All the Family. Postam.
Yes, folks, it's time again to drop in on the Aldrich family.
Time to enjoy the relaxation that comes from a visit with this typical American family.
Relaxation, of course, is something we all need.
And sometimes, if a tense, nervous condition prevents you from getting it,
it's well to ask this question.
Is coffee making you nervous?
Would you be better off drinking Postam instead of coffee?
Well, now far be it for me to imply that there aren't many folks on whom coffee has no ill effects, whatever.
That's obvious when you consider how popular coffee is.
But I do know that coffee does make many people nervous.
So if you think it sets your nerves on edge, switch to postem.
Postem contains no stimulants, nothing that could possibly affect your nerves.
Drink postem with all its flavor and fragrance instead of coffee,
and see if that nervous feeling doesn't go away.
See if you don't feel really relaxed again, once you give postem a fair trial.
[Music]
Tom Sawyer, Penrod Schofield and Huck Finn are real boys to all of us,
because their adventures and their ways of thinking are those of every real boy.
And now Henry Aldrich joins the ranks of America's favorite youngsters.
A boy from your own block, or even perhaps from your own home.
We join Henry Aldrich and his friend Homer in the Aldrich living room.
The time is just before dinner.
G-Homer, if that isn't a nice thing to do to my best coat.
Now listen, Henry, you talked just as though I turned it into the lake on purpose.
I didn't know my girl was going to jump.
When? When the bee attacked her. Out in the canoe.
Well, gee whiz, Homer, look at my coat soaking wet.
And I'm supposed to wear it to the lecture next week.
Alright, Henry, if that's the way you feel about it,
watch and see if I ever borrow your coat again.
And look at the things in the pockets.
Look at my girl's picture. She's all warped.
[laughter]
Part of that's natural. It is not.
I wonder when Worth is one of the best?
Oh boy. What's the matter?
Oh boy. What have I done now?
Look at this letter, it's ringing wet.
Who's it from?
I don't know who it's from.
Only somebody in my family gave it to me the mail last week.
They did?
Yes, Homer, and I never thought you'd do a thing like this to it.
Who's it addressed to?
Well, that's the trouble. Can't you see the water's washed or the ink off the envelope?
Whose name is on the bag?
Not so loud, Homer. Do you want my mother to hear you?
Henry, are you almost ready for dinner?
Why, uh, yes I am, Mary.
Here, Homer, take this coat and this letter up to my room.
to my room now.
Sure, and put them on the radiator and turn on the heat.
Okay.
Oh, Mary, your mother found for you to come home a long time ago.
Oh, she did.
Thank you.
Mary, I've been intending to ask you.
Is Joe Graham still out of town?
Yes.
That's what I thought.
If I remember correctly, you gave me a letter to mail to him, didn't you?
Yes.
That's what I...
Did you ever get an answer?
Yes.
Oh.
Well, that's fine.
Why do you ask?
Why was just wondering?
Mary!
Yes, Father!
Your mother wants you to help her in the kitchen.
Oh, my goodness, I'll go right out.
Hello, Henry.
Oh, hello, Father.
Oh, my gone home?
No, sir.
He's upstairs, drying...
He'll...
He's upstairs, sort of...
He's upstairs.
You say he's upstairs?
Yes, sir.
Just temporarily.
How did everything go with you today?
Fine.
How's...
business. Fine. How are the males coming through? The males. What males? Just the
males. Well they're coming through. Fine. Why do you ask that? Well I was just...
Henry! Yes mother. Didn't go on the table. We'll be right there.
Then come in and stock up. Yes, Alice. Look mother. Is there anything just
all pan that you can think of that I haven't done that you told me to in the
ask few weeks. What do you mean by that? Well, I don't know. I was just asking.
Now, that's how the ticket's going with the lecture at the women's club.
Sam, I'm worried sick. What's the trouble? Well, dear, I haven't had any word from the
man that's coming to give the lecture, and here it is less than a week old.
Mother, aren't you chairman of the lecture committee? Yes, dear. Why, yeah. Why don't you
hear from him? Well, Henry, I wish I knew why. Oh, when did you write to him?
Last week. I gave you the letter to mail. You gave it to me? Sam, I'm almost
positive I did. Didn't you mail it? If you gave it to me I mailed it. Henry did
mother can I have the bread please? Here you are. And father shall I pass this
who's it to mother? Yes please. Goodbye Henry. I think everything's gonna be all
right. What's that Homer? What's going to be all right? Well I don't think he
meant anything special father. Sam how much time do you think I'd need to get
an answer to my letter? Well three or four days should be more than enough.
Actually, it only takes two.
Mother, what city does the lecturer live in?
He doesn't live anyplace. He travels all over.
Oh, that's too bad.
Maybe that's why he didn't get your letter, Mother.
He's spending all of this month in Chicago, Mary.
In Chicago?
Yes, Henry.
On what street?
What difference does it make?
Alice, are you sure you addressed the envelope correctly?
I'm almost positive. I sent it to 721 St. Eagleston Drive.
721?
Yes, dear.
What's his name?
Henry!
Well, Mary, can't you take an interest in this lecture, too?
I'm not going to us!
Oh, yes, you are, dear.
We're all going.
Am I going?
Now, Sam, you've got the day.
And Roy, an entire evening?
Dear, I don't care for John Williams-Steber any more than you do.
But after all, I'm Chairman, and the least you can do is go in here, Steber.
Steber?
How would you spell a name like that?
Henry, what difference does it make?
Well, after all, suppose somebody came up to me and said, "Did you ever hear of John Williams-Steber
721 St. Agleston Drive Chicago. I wouldn't even know how to spell it.
Sam, have you been able to get them?
No, Alice. The long distance operator will call us the minute she does.
Well, I'm afraid we're making a mistake.
People who bought tickets to hear John William Stieber,
lecturing all of the beautiful, are not going to care for a lecturer on child behaviour.
How about getting old Uncle Jim Murphy over here on the edge of town?
What for?
Only used to put on a magic act for the children at the hospital every Christmas.
Deal, let's not be ridiculous.
It's better than nothing. You've got to have something when the crowd gets there to you tonight.
Let me see that letter once more.
What letter?
The one that came this morning from John Williams Steber.
I'm here. And for as long as I live I'll never understand how a mistake like this happens.
He says, "Dear Mrs. Ulrich, I regret very much that I must change my plans
plans and decline your offer to address the Centerville Women's Club went a
forum. I enclose a letter which was apparently sent to me by mistake. Yours
truly J.W. Steber.
"Then how did I ever do a thing like that? This letter he returned was to Antsou."
"Looks as though he dragged it out of some lake."
"Dear Sue, don't for heaven's sake come all the way to Centerville just to hear
John William Steber next Tuesday night. Why the club ever voted to have him I'll
never know he's a terrible bore yes very well put them I don't think he had any
right to turn down an important engagement just because of the petty
opinion of one individual you mean this opinion but he had no right to read it
after all he could see it wasn't for him Alice you're lucky the man isn't suing
you
this week please you're allowance Henry oh gee was did mother get a letter from
from did mother get a letter yes dear from mr.
- The seabed. - Oh.
- Then that's not on our minds anymore.
- What do you mean, our minds?
- Well, isn't it an answer to...
- Can he come? - No, dear.
He's very much upset over something.
In fact, I did a very absent-minded thing.
- What? - Well, I wrote a letter to your aunt Sue, dear,
and addressed it to Mr. Seabed.
- And he was just a little hurt.
- Oh. Oh.
Is that the letter that you...
- I mean that letter?
- That's too bad.
Yes, Henry, it is.
Oh, oh yes.
Well, look, is there anything I can do?
No, dear, what could you possibly do?
Oh, I feel like you ought to do something.
And I wish you could.
Oh, here's your allowance, son.
Well, on second thought, Father, I don't think I need any this week.
Where are you going that you don't want any?
Well, just over to see Eleanor Wentworth.
Well, don't come home too late.
No, Mother.
Goodbye, Henry.
Goodbye, and I'm certainly sorry this happened.
[Music]
Henry, don't you want to sit here on the sofa and look at these pictures with me?
Pictures?
These pictures. Henry, tell me.
What? Are you worried about something?
Only?
You've been sort of so preoccupied ever since you got here.
I'm not preoccupied. Have you any writing paper?
Any wa-
Writing paper. I've decided to write a letter to Chicago.
to Chicago.
No.
Yeah, I think it's something I've got to attend to.
Well, I have a little, but it's pink.
Well, that's all right.
Gina, in a case like this, I don't think I ought to take the time to worry about the
color.
All right.
What are you crying for?
I'm not crying.
What have I done?
I'll tell you what you've done, Henry.
I'll tell you.
You asked me to say this Saturday evening for you.
And ever since you've gotten here, you've hardly said ten words.
I have.
Yes, you have it.
And now you want to write to somebody else.
It's not a joke.
Do you want me to speak in?
It's only me Mrs. Lintwell.
Wait, Henry Eldridge, and see whether I ever save you another Saturday night.
But I can't help it if the women's club is expecting Guatemala and I...
And I...
And he won't come.
Henry.
Mother, has Henry gone crazy?
No, I haven't.
Aren't you going to the lecture Tuesday night?
Yes.
Well, I chose how much you know about it.
He isn't even coming.
Who isn't?
Nobody.
That's why my mother's got to get someone and it's all on account of...
On account of...
Gee, whiz Mrs. Lintwell.
I feel I ought to do something about it.
Well, my gracious, why didn't you say what was on your mind, Henry?
Mother, you want to know someone you knew lots of musical people in Chicago.
Well, I don't know. Anyone there we could get on this short notice.
Do you know some musical people, Mrs. Wentworth?
Well, you see, Henry, I studied music right up until I was married.
In fact, Henry, mother was going to have a career in music only Father asked her not to.
What did she play?
I sang.
Well, Gee, Wiz, are you the one I always hear in church sort of louder than everybody else?
Well, my... my voice always was noted for its body.
Oh, yes.
Mother, why couldn't you help the women's club out and sing?
Instead of Guatemala?
Oh, I don't think I should, Henry.
Sure, why not? She whiz my mother's desperate.
Oh, no, please, mother. I'd love to hear you sing.
Eleanor, your father never speaks to me again.
All righty, he doesn't have to go. I know my father won't.
Well, thank you just the same, Henry, but you know how people turn up their noses in this town at home, talent?
a home talent has to come from Chicago or does not
a good but after all mother you study in Chicago for years right on Michigan
after you cost the haul of the women's club it's just ideally suited for my
voice it is of course it isn't and mother mr.
dies new place the organ of the church can accompany you yes dear if I can just
keep him from playing too loud you always think he's the soloist well gee
I'll have my mother have a talk with him she's chairman she can tell him how
allowed to play no deal no i'll take care of that
you just ask your mother whether there's anything in particular she'd like to
have me sing okay um here um let me see now
what is it you're writing mrs. Wentworth here are two suggestions for us
one is french dear and one's Italian that's fine and is there any song you
could sing from guatamala
Well, as usual, the tune Henry's playing seems to be just slightly off-key, and it remains
to be seen whether he'll strike any more sour notes.
In the meantime, if I may, I'd like to suggest a sweet note, something that should strike
a cord of harmony with all of you who enjoy having a good hot drink with your meals.
Folks, try a steaming, fragrant cup of delicious postum, sugar and cream it to suit your taste,
and see if you don't agree that it stops for goodness.
I'm sure you will because gold and brown postum gives you just what you want in a meal time
drink.
Cheering warmth to give you that glowing feeling, tempting fragrance that says "drink
hearty" and best of all, postums really grand flavor.
don't expect post-em to taste like coffee anymore than you'd expect coffee to taste
like tea. For post-em naturally is different. Its flavor is distinctive and believe me when
you taste it you'll say this shouldn't be called post-em, it should be called post-em.
So tomorrow make post-em for everyone in your family. Serve it to youngsters as well as grown-ups
and see if you don't agree that there's no hot meal time drink quite so good as post-em
for all the family.
Now getting back to the troubles of Henry Aldrich
Henry feeling just a bit guilty because his mother is unable to get a lecture for
the women's club for next Tuesday night
has found that his girl's mother won't study music
and that she is more than eager to arise to the occasion
Well, as he starts for home, he carries with him a list of songs he would be willing to sing.
The scene opens late that night, and the all-rich front hall.
But Sam, I couldn't have concentrated on a game of bridge tonight if I'd had to.
Well, worrying about Tuesday night's lecture isn't going to help, any.
Let's go off to bed.
- Does he lock the door, dear? - Yes, dear Henry, and...
Yes, dear, he's caught right here in the closet.
After all, things could be worse.
Why don't you simply announce that there won't be any program?
Because I was asked to get someone. If we cancel it, I've utterly seen.
- Wait a minute. What's this? - What's what?
a snowboard telephone and no
it's from henry
mother you will be relieved to hear that missus went worth i think has the
solution to your program
she would like when you can to talk to her about it
but what i don't know how this i haven't finished
she said along the letter that is with this which she says you will understand
glad you won't have to worry anymore henry
is this the letter she said
dear missus oldrich no doubt by the time you read this henry will have
explained everything
Here are a few suggestions for you to choose from.
Don Fatale, Beth-A-Bathie, Casta, Divers.
Sam, what on earth?
- Yeah, let me see that.
Don Fatale, who's Don Fatale?
- And Beth-A-Bathie.
Sam, did you ever hear that name before?
- Sounds like some opera star.
- Sam, I know.
Those are some of Kitty's friends.
She's always boasting about the people she knows.
- What about it?
- She's suggesting one of them for our program.
She says right here at the top, we can have our choice.
Sam, Sam, where's the phone book?
Who are you gonna call?
Kitty, of course.
At this time of night?
Sam, you don't think I could sleep when I'm this excited, do you?
Here.
Here it is.
Hello, operator.
Alice, the Wentworth's a probably in bed and a sleeve.
Number, please.
L2621.
I thought you didn't like Kitty Wentworth.
Sam, I never said that.
There are a great many things about her I haven't really cared for, but dear, I think
she has a lot more to her than people give her credit for.
Your Wentworth always said it took time to get to know her.
I'm ringing your number.
Just keep right on, they're probably in bed.
Sam, you know I think I'll give a dinner party for Kitty and Baddy Baddy Tuesday night.
That's the least I can do.
Good idea.
It'd be quite an honor to have a concert star here for dinner.
Hello?
Is this Kitty?
Oh.
Kitty, this is Alice.
Alice O'Gritte, I just found your note along with Henry.
Oh, yes!
And I just want to say I'm so thrilled to think that you can help us.
Oh, really, Alice?
I don't know what we would have done if you hadn't come to the rescue
because we did want to have something nice.
Oh no, mention it, dear. I thought afterwards perhaps I'd taken Henry too seriously.
Oh no, you just can't realize how grateful I am.
Oh, well, it's...
There's just one thing, of course, today. And I hope you won't be offended, but naturally, it's the sea, of course.
The sea? Oh, how is the end? I won't be any.
You mean to say there won't be any charge at all?
Well, after all, I've always wanted to do something like this for the women's club.
Why don't you do this if you insist, Alice? Why not give the sea you were going to pay to the church?
Of course, Kitty, we could divide it among all the churches in town.
Well, I won't keep you up any longer. They're a good guy.
Hi. He's only I don't have a call that night.
What? I certainly hate to wait ten years to get a chance to sing at the women's club and then catch call.
What? But don't worry dear, I won't let you down. Good bye.
What? Sam! Sam! Sam!
I'm open!
Here's your orange juice mother.
Oh, thank you Mary. You want another pillow under your head?
No, thank you.
Now Mary, if I were you, I'd tip to back downstairs.
Sam, aren't you going to eat any breakfast?
I've eaten.
Mother, do you mind if I ask you just one question before I go?
What is it? Why aren't either of you speaking to Henry?
That's just a little matter concerning us, Mary.
But Father, I'd like to know because maybe I shouldn't be speaking to a me either.
You shouldn't. Really?
I'll just go downstairs.
Yes, Father, I'll go.
Aren't you going to drink your orange juice, Alice?
Sam, you can look at this objectively.
You can look at it as a man would.
What shall I do?
I have no idea.
Of course, there's a lot of influenza around.
I might get the Board of Health to forbid I're holding the concert.
Well, you can't get the Board of Health to do that.
In the first place, the Health Commissioner's kitty went worse cousin.
Well, I know what I'm going to do.
What?
Sam, I've been thinking things over.
I have entirely too much work to do around this house.
My family needs me, Sam.
I'm going to resign.
From what?
From the Women's Club.
Alice, you can't do that.
But I've heard her sing.
Alice, Joe Wentworth has been one of my best friends for 20 years.
Father?
Henry, your mother would rather you did not come in.
I don't want to come in, Father.
I just want to ask if I may go to church.
The church?
Yes, sir.
I think it's a very good idea.
You may go with me.
The only trouble is my coke.
I mean, well, that's all right.
Henry, open the door a minute.
Are you sure it won't bother your mother?
Henry, what kind are you going to wear?
My black one.
Dear, I want you to wear your brown one.
Wouldn't black be more appropriate?
Not sand.
You don't mind if when church is over,
I stay for Sunday school, do you?
Not at all. Now please leave the room.
Yes, sir. And then I'll come home and help Mary get dinner and rest a little this afternoon
until I go back to evening service.
[Music]
Better step along, Henry. I will be late.
Gee, there are quite a few going to church this morning, aren't there?
Yes, sir.
Father, have you heard whether there's much influenza around?
Oh, I understand this, son. Nothing serious, however.
Oh, Father, how big is the fire escape at the woman's club?
I have no idea.
Gee, which house is all that singing coming from?
I believe that's coming from the Wentworths.
From the Wentworths?
mean she's warming up already? Yes, let's cross the street.
On Wednesday night, our regular Wednesday meeting will be held at this church as usual.
Ms Eleanor Wentworth handed me this next announcement just before the service began.
On Tuesday evening, the Senator Women's Club Winter Forum will contribute a part of its receipts to the town's churches.
The program, instead of being water model of beautiful, will be a vocal concert,
sung by our own Mrs. Joseph Wentworth.
Let us pray.
When would that telegram stand, Alice?
This morning, dear, the 20th.
Only speaker we can send you for your program tomorrow evening is Dr. Calvin Anderson Butler
on subject of child behavior has had 11 years experience in boys reform schools and guarantee
he will solve your problems. Please wire. Is that all? Sam I've made up my mind. I'm going to phone
Kitty Wentworth and tell her just as nicely as I know how that we do not want her to sing. But Alice
you can't tell her that. I don't care. We're going to have Dr. Calvin Anderson Butler.
Elin 2621 very well maybe it is for the best no I don't know why I didn't have
enough courage to do it in the first place I'll have a talk with Joe Wentworth
he'll understand hello Eleanor may I speak with your mother please
well Eleanor when do you expect her back tomorrow
where
she wanted to get no
really well isn't that lovely dear oh I see good bye Eleanor Sam Alice
take a look at this what is it the morning paper here it is the whole thing
Sam it's a picture of Kitty and look at the heading local thrush to replace
Guatemala now Alice this is no time in which to have hysterics again
(upbeat music)
Homer, my mother wants to know
whether you'd like a little job for tonight.
- Doing what?
- Ushering.
- Well, I'll usher Henry, but I won't listen.
- Well, that's all right.
When it begins, we can sit out on the front steps.
That's what my father says he's going to do.
- She ought to see how sore my mother is about tonight.
- How did you remember the happen to ask
Mrs. Wentworth to sing?
- Well, we're very fond of the whole family.
Come on, let's go in the station, Homer.
What for?
I want to weigh myself on these scales.
Here, hold my Latin.
Boy, have you lost weight.
Well, G-Homer, I've had a bad week.
Henry, do you want me, Mr. Taylor?
You want to earn 10 cents, Henry?
I've got a telegram here for Mr. Wentworth,
and I haven't been able to get in touch with it.
You want me to take it up to him?
Sure.
Here's the message, and here's your dime.
Well, thank you very much.
And Henry, don't you fool around any.
I think that telegram's important.
Oh, you can depend on me, Mr. Taylor.
I'll hold it in my hand so I can't possibly forget.
Thank you very much.
Hello.
Senator Goel station.
This is Joe Wentworth speaking.
Is that 320 from Chicago a lot on time?
Say, I've been trying to get you.
I just sent a telegram up to you by Henry Aldrich.
A telegram?
I didn't take it when it came in, but I understand it.
It said your wife was stuck in Chicago without any money.
Oh, Kitty?
It's too bad she didn't get a round trip.
ticket when she bought it
what did you do with your purse?
no i understand she said she spent more money on clothes
than she figured she would
and the telegram henry's taking up to you
has the address where you're supposed to wire the money
i see
well thank you very much
sorry i can't get to your wife's concert tonight mister went worse
seems my wife uh... forgot we had a previous engagement too bad
By the way, do you see those two boys coming up Main Street?
Yes, sir.
One of them is in Henry Aldrich, is it?
I believe it is.
Oh, yes, yes, yes, so it is.
Well, I guess I'll be stepping down walnut for something.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Look, Homer, look, there he is in front of the filling station.
Where?
Right there, getting his tank filled in Homer.
He sees it.
Wave to him.
Oh, Mr. Wentworth, the Mr. Wentworth.
What's the matter with him, Henry?
He's driving right off.
Well gee whiz I could have sworn he looked straight at us.
Boy am I getting sick of this.
We haven't been looking for him for so long, Homer.
Only about two hours.
Sure. At the rate of five cents an hour.
From now on we work for nothing.
Well I don't understand why we didn't catch up with him this time.
He looked right at us again and then beat it into this drugstore.
Maybe he's getting blind, Henry.
Well look, just so he doesn't miss us again, I'll go in this door and you slip around the corner
and go in the side door. Okay, we've got him cornered Homer and we have an
anything more to worry about.
[Music]
Tickets please. Tickets please. The program started yet Henry. Yes Mrs. Thompson
it's been going on for some time. Very many in there. Oh, she practically every
seat's taken. In fact I'm afraid you'll have to stand. That's all. Just a second
If you don't mind going in real quietly, I'll open the door for you.
All right, Henry.
And so far, ladies and gentlemen,
I have given you only the basic fundamentals of our subject for this evening.
Child behavior.
During my first three years at the head of a reform room.
He's pretty good, isn't he, Henry?
Not bad.
I think everybody's timing is a good time, don't you, Homer?
My father even came when he heard what the subject was.
Program started, boys.
Well, Gee, was Mr. Wentworth. Where did you come from?
No, Aaron, particular.
Good to follow me to speak.
Yes, sir. And I've got a telegram here.
I've been trying to give you ever since 3 o'clock this afternoon.
A telegram?
Yes, sir. And they said it was very urgent.
Yes. All right to go in this door here.
But aren't you going to read it?
I'll read it later. I want to hear the lecture.
And I want to thank you for delivering it, Henry.
I thank you very much.
Oh, I don't know whether you can get a seat in there or not.
I think I can. Your father said he'd say one for me.
Oh, have you seen him?
had a little talk with him this afternoon
and you parent who has a taken giving your children responsibility
could realize that although there is a certain amount of risk involved
in the end uh... r_n_s_ to somehow manage to get things done
it may not be in a straight line
but i have yet to see it fail
when they did eventually get
you know and we that fell out of the door a lot of goodness town
what step out and get some fresh air
that's what i say
They say they took in enough money so that every church in town can get a new window.
Stained?
Sure.
See, that makes me feel pretty good.
You talk as though you've done the whole thing, Henry.
Well, of course I'm not entirely responsible Homer, but I've sort of contributed my share.
[Music]
Henry Aldrich will be back in just a moment.
In the meantime friends remember your two best reasons for drinking postam are these.
Because if coffee makes you nervous,
Postam can't possibly affect your nerves.
And because Postam really does taste swell,
it's a grand flavorful drink for all the family.
So get Postam from your grocer tomorrow.
Our program tonight has come to you from the Philadelphia Forum.
Listen again next week to the Aldrich family, same time, same station,
for another sparkling half hour with your favorite youngster, his family, and his pals.
The Aldrich family, starring as Rustone, is written by Clifford Goldsmith,
Original music is composed and conducted by Jack Miller.
This is Harry Vonsell saying you will enjoy fragrant, flavorful postum.
And remember, postum contains no stimulants.
It cannot make you nervous.
Good night.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[Music]
(buzzing)
[buzzing]